# Documentation Interest Group — October 7, 2020 — 11:00 AM Eastern

Zoom:  https://us02web.zoom.us/j/87888134747

* Chair: Miro Hanke
* Notes: Melissa Anez
* Attending: 

- Mirko Hanke
- Jeff Rubin
- Melissa Anez
- Alexander O'Neill
- Amy Blau
- Dara Virks
- Danny LAmb
- Janice Banser
- Julia Corrin
- Paige Morfitt
- Rosie LeFaive
- Yamil Suarez


## Resources:
* [Islandora 8 Documentation](https://islandora.github.io/documentation/)
* [Spreadsheet on Islandora 8 Documentaton](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1E-kRw9xE60CKK0qL1-phzeVKjEZu3qBKZ9d3LH1hDEE/edit?usp=sharing)
* [Islandora 8 Documentation Issues](https://github.com/Islandora/documentation/labels/documentation)
* [Islandora 7 Documentation](https://wiki.lyrasis.org/display/ISLANDORA/Start)

## Agenda:
* Set recurring day and time
* What do you want from the DIG?
* Discuss scope question: Documentation for Islandora 7 and 8?
* Discuss charge: Steering/managing creation of documentation
    * Recruiting contributors: Who can be asked to write documentation?
    * Identifying gaps: Combing through existing documentation and issues, using survey results to identify tasks to expand/update (method, timeline)
    * Prioritizing tasks: Using survey results to plan work, e.g. for documentation sprints (method, timeline)

## Future discussion topics (timing TBD)
* Accessibility
* Workflow: Ensure users can provide feedback or suggest edits
* Cooperation with Lyrasis around IMLS grant for Fedora migration


## Notes

* Set recurring day and time: Wednesdays, every other week. Next meeting October 21.
* What do you want from the DIG?
     - Defined forward momentmentum
     - Point out where docs are missing, coordinate with sprints and hack/Docs to fill in those gaps
     - Review documentation pull requests
     - Identify, define, and *refine* process for doing documenttion in Islandora
     - Build a roadmpa for documentation, set priorities

* Discuss scope question: Documentation for Islandora 7 and 8?
     - Focus on 8 but allow for attention on 7 if necessary. We can add to the 7 docs form our work on 8 if we generate something useful. Migration docs (7 to 8 or 7 to ISLE 7) may also be needed in the 7.x docs. Focus should be on improvements to Islandora 7 docs that are forward-looking.
* Discuss charge: Steering/managing creation of documentation
    * Recruiting contributors: Who can be asked to write documentation?
     - Need to manage time commitments. 
     - How to identify the experts? Who can be asked about topics? Some committers specialize, but it's hard ot knwo who to go to unless you already know.
    * Identifying gaps: Combing through existing documentation and issues, using survey results to identify tasks to expand/update (method, timeline)
     - How to start reviewing and refining the docs?
     - Even the overall organization of the current docs could be improved. They are currently somewhat "organic" and grew in place.
     - Docs are divided up by user type, but could we take this further and use "personas"?
     - Docs looking at the planning/set up for a new repository
     - Can we use the mkdocs files to create different versions of the docs (different pages included, different order of pages) for different user stories?
     - Can [Drupal spec](https://mikemadison.net/blog/2020/8/31/introduction-to-the-drupal-spec-tool) help as an organizing tool? Good for site planning
     - Can we have Drupal 101 documentation for folks using Islandora? Provide context for what is Drupal, what is Islandora, etc.
     - [https://thegooddocsproject.dev/](https://thegooddocsproject.dev/) could provide guidance
     - Distinction between Islandora Defaults and Islandora is not clear in the docs
    * Prioritizing tasks: Using survey results to plan work, e.g. for documentation sprints (method, timeline): Ran out of time, will address at a future meeting
    
    Homework: Mirko will make a google doc to collaborate on reviewing & revising the Style Guide as an entry point for capturing ideas about how to approach documentation
