# Documentation Interest Group — October 8th, 2025 — 2:00 PM Eastern

Zoom: https://us02web.zoom.us/j/86061293910?pwd=6yhfHWDAxQawyJ4PwE21nTj7ND9n5j.1

## Attendance
* 

## Resources
* [Islandora 8 Documentation](https://islandora.github.io/documentation/)
* [Spreadsheet on Islandora 8 Documentaton](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1E-kRw9xE60CKK0qL1-phzeVKjEZu3qBKZ9d3LH1hDEE/edit?usp=sharing)
* [Islandora 8 Documentation Issues](https://github.com/Islandora/documentation/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22Type%3A+documentation%22)
* [Islandora 7 Documentation](https://wiki.lyrasis.org/display/ISLANDORA/Start)

## Agenda
- Community announcements (if any)
    - IslandoraCon: Community HackDoc/ Hackathon
        - no new docs created yet 
- Doc related PRs to talk about
  - https://github.com/Islandora/documentation/pull/2375
    - added recipe section and instructions for minting DOIs #2375
    - Need to decide how we combine the content here (https://islandora.github.io/documentation/user-documentation/extending/#recipes) with the above PR
        - Note: The "extending Islandora" page contains these sections
            - introduction, recipes, and ingridients
  - https://github.com/Islandora-Labs/Islandora-Cookbook/pull/19
    - Create remote-media.md #19
- Do we need better docs for upgrading individual Drupal modules?
  - this came up on Slack and then the tech call
  - It was mentioned that the current isle-dc and isle-site-template docs between them have enough info
    - but isle-site-template docs need to have the "profile" syntax ignored
    - anything else DC/DIG could do here?
- Yamil note for Annie: should we document the imagemagick bit depth trick for the cookbook section?       
- Islandora Foundation - Leadership Group proposal (LG) for DIG
    - We are now a committe, Yamil is the chair
    - Plan to update the DIG name to DC
    - Need to cratea a new terms of reference for DC
        - DC draft "terms of reference"
            - https://docs.google.com/document/d/1nZ6H4Qyh748juwHb-Fxto7h8VTJwvMmGMSqSICW8vA8/edit?tab=t.0 
        - MIG notes on creating new terms of reference
            - https://docs.google.com/document/d/1MBM0mewaZbxo_05Mk21FgppijAKrjFSyG1VFegUpBAQ/edit?tab=t.0
    - We can keep our content on the current DIG repo (the repo this page lives in)
- Document the "turn off link headers" feature in Islandora
    - Suggestion from Tech Call
    - Need a volunteer to create an issue, and then we need to write the documentation
    - here is the related PR https://github.com/Islandora/islandora/pull/1038
    - Yamil has a draft to explain this toggle feature that can be added to this existing section of our docs
       - https://islandora.github.io/documentation/technical-documentation/rest-signposting/
    - [KEEP ON AGENDA]
- Florida Virtual Campus has created extensive in-house user documentation for Islandora 2
    - Living document
    - LibGuide: https://flvc.libguides.com/FL-Islandora/fig20
    - Accepting feedback: https://flvc.libguides.com/FL-Islandora/figfeedback
    - Possible action items for DIG?
    - Can reuse with credit to FLVC; no problem to link to LibGuide: "Reused with permission from Florida Virtual Campus"
- Site Template: Give feedback to Josh on his proposed additions
    - Latest pull requests
        - https://github.com/Islandora/documentation/pull/2312
            - no longer in draft mode, waiting on a related PR and then this PR can be merged
    - Goal: Making documentation for site template as robust as possible, ultimately giving TAG chance to phasing out Isle-DC
    - [KEEP ON AGENDA]
- Look into cookbook recipes for Islandora 2 that could be moved to offical docs
    - There's already an issue, verify that all has been moved: https://github.com/Islandora/documentation/issues/1873
    - https://github.com/Islandora-Labs/Islandora-Cookbook
    - Actions
        - [December 2024]: Message mailing list about planned retirement of Islandora Cookbook repo
        - Discuss next actions: Use 2nd half of December meeting to review Cookbook/moved documentation
        - Go through https://islandora.github.io/documentation/user-documentation/extending/, compare to https://github.com/Islandora-Labs/Islandora-Cookbook (including Readme file of that repository) and investigate whether recipes are still up to date and which might still need to be migrated
        - Started auditing: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1W6k8p_0c9pE6Wa3PokBlkAw5yJ1y9n-rPOALU4ozDDU/edit?gid=1276349475#gid=1276349475
        - Green rows are done, white rows still need to be done (see column E)
        - Make clear distinction between Islandora Cookbook recipes (lowercase 'r') and Drupal Recipes (https://www.drupal.org/docs/extending-drupal/drupal-recipes)
        - Add admonition to Cookbook page to warn users of risks of using Drupal contrib modules; Rosie and Yamil will work on wording
    - [KEEP ON AGENDA] --> 'deprecate' Islandora Cookbook repository and encourage community members to add recipes to official documentation directly; Board/LG can provide keys if we send them an email
- Review Rosie's module-by-module documentation on wiki; revisit documentation menu structure to find home for it
    - https://docs.lefaive.ca/wiki/Unofficial_Islandora_Wiki 
    - documentation available on Rosie's wiki, could be merged into main documentation
    - audience: site manager/site admin, making functionality and somewhat technical decisions
    - [November 2024]: consider planning sprint to audit/reuse Wiki documentation
    - [February 2025]: Site not loading, revisit when Rosie's website is up again
    - [July 2025]: Site not loading, revisit when website is up again
- Review open pull requests (2-3, max. 20 minutes): https://github.com/Islandora/documentation/pulls
    - (draft) https://github.com/Islandora/documentation/pull/2365 
    - [KEEP ON AGENDA]
- Review open documentation issues: https://github.com/Islandora/documentation/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22Type%3A+documentation%22
    - https://github.com/Islandora/documentation/issues/2354, could be good candidate for hack-a-thon 
    - [KEEP ON AGENDA]
- Review recent documentation repository commits: https://github.com/Islandora/documentation/commits/main
    - [KEEP ON AGENDA]
- Updates/Highlights for Leadership Group meeting
    - [KEEP ON AGENDA]

## Agenda parking lot
- Plan mini hack-docs during Islandora Open Meeting(s)?
    - list priorities for documentation work, use time during OM
    - No set plans, looking for volunteer to take this on (put in parking lot?)
  - Add more obvious link to DIG (and other IGs) to Islandora website?
    - unclear who is currently responsible for website, maybe take to ICC?
    - --> Board/LG is responsible, send email
- List conferences possibly relevant for members of Islandora community/ Islandora foundation staff
    - Audience? Where to publish, how to maintain? Slack, if it's time-sensitive; mailing list; possibly cluster and share once a year
    - Ask for models/ existing collections to avoid reinventing the wheel (?)
    - Think of next actions --> Mirko will suggest to the ICC that this kind of information lives in one of the Github wiki spaces or on the website (e.g. https://github.com/Islandora/islandora-community/wiki)
    - --> In the absence of foundation staff, LG/Board is in charge and will consider question if we send them an email
    - --> Mailing list as minimal approach, put in parking lot for November/December to revisit/compile quick list of relevant conferences and mail it out
    - --> move to parking lot for revisiting
- Migration to a wiki based platform
  - investigating wiki platform for documentation: did some research, but not enough resources to push this forward. Could be revisited in the future if IF provides add'l resources; Yamil offers to speak about this at Open Meeting or on other occasion
  - SINGLE TOPIC / Working meeting: Migration of documentation to different platform (e.g. wiki)
  - Google doc for ideas: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1CIjdhAC5LuWhypQZSDpj7UQg_IRZk7_HcaVu_kkhcjQ/edit
- DIG Survey: https://forms.gle/39XY7o1qgpQt3ZUw6
  - Survey is now closed, we need to mine knowledge from the data.
  - see notes from previous meeting: https://github.com/islandora-interest-groups/Islandora-Documentation-Interest-Group/blob/main/meetings/2023/2023-06-14.md
  - no surprises in survey results as to barriers keeping users from creating documentation
  - visualization of survey results?
  - contains contact info for people we might reach out to again
- 2024 Documentation prior discussion: Follow work to consolidate installation methods/deprecating ISLE-DC; documenting migration pathways between installation flavours; keep readme files and documentation in sync; documenting Docker commands in more detail, possibly making 'make' files optional
    - Created issue https://github.com/Islandora/documentation/issues/2285
    - Discussion for the Tech Call/TAG, not for DIG to solve?
    - Josh will have notes to share for work on this
- Sprint pre-planning for Q? doc sprint?
    - Taking Starter Site as starting point, explaining what (lowercase-F) features are included, explain what happens when you remove portions/add things
    - Suggestion: mini-sprint/microsprint ((c) Yamil) to reorganize/adapt documentation to reflect Starter Site
    - Dev sprint on configuration of Starter site, follow up with doc-mini/micro sprint? Charter draft: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1bsPEjJ7lRRgmt75V90bqBGMHhn7i-qt8MDesD-ncp14/edit
    - [KEEP ON AGENDA] Revisit during next meeting
